in this lecture we're gonna build an
array base list but before we do that I
think it's important to ask ourselves
why because you'll remember halfway
through the previous lecture we actually
ended up with something really nice a
nice linked list that we call a D list
so D lists had some wonderful properties
and we wanted to add items remove items
get items all of them were fast and I
also said that we avoided ugly special
cases by having the special topology
where the empty list looks something
like this and as you fill in items you
end up having a structure like this am I
gonna go back over it and you'll have a
chance in project 1a to see just how
this beautiful idea makes it not so hard
to code up at least I mean to me for you
you might have a little more struggle
that's okay but once you get the ideas
down you realize and I hope I appreciate
how good it is so all of these
operations are fast the data structure
is pretty beautiful so the question is
why bother
why bother using arrays instead and so
let's talk about a limitation to lists
so in general if you have a list a lot
of times you want to be able to get a
specific item out of it so we might be
able to ask a list something like could
you get me item two so I'd say get item
to get to and it would return 70 so it
turns out with this linked list
implementation it's going to be slow for
long lists and what I mean by slow is if
you compare the performance of a get
operation to the performance of get last
it'll take a lot longer so I'd like you
to think about why that might be the
case and for what inputs to plumb to
that for a moment and I'll spoil it okay
so the reason is that you have to
actually scan to the desired position so
if I want to get item two I have to
follow the sentinel link hop a couple of
times and get the Senate team so well
that's not so bad here imagine you have
a list that's a million items long and
someone asked for item 500,000 no matter
what you're gonna have to end up
scanning all the way through the list
and you'll reach the point in the middle
finally and be able to return the item
but it means you have to walk a really
long list list which is gonna be slow
compared to just getting say the last
item so how can we fix this well I
didn't actually make this light blue and
make you think about it there are some
ways you can maybe ponder it but the two
most obvious ways or the
most natural aces won the thing we're
gonna do which is to use an array
instead avoiding the need for any links
because without a bunch of links there's
no need to traverse them and that'll
make it fast and there's another
approach
we'll discuss much later where we can
mess with the topology this list in a
very clever way and end up something
with something that's a lot faster but
we won't discuss it today so let's move
on to the ArrayList